# MOB Programming Session

Date: 09-12-2022

Topic: JavaScript Runtimes

## Related Documentation

> [Everything You Should Know About JavaScript Runtimes](https://levelup.gitconnected.com/dev-explainer-javascript-runtimes-8e4d1e3af405)

## Summary

To actually execute JavaScript code, you need a program called a runtime (aka an engine). Each modern web browser comes bundled with a JavaScript runtime. Chrome uses an engine called V8, while Firefox uses SpiderMonkey and Safari uses WebKit/JavaScriptCore.

Recently, there has been a trend of executing Javascript code outside of web browsers. There are now multiple JavaScript runtimes that are designed to execute JavaScript on the “server-side”, such as NodeJS, Deno and Bun.

### NodeJs

Currently, the most popular server-side JS runtime is NodeJS, which is based on V8. NodeJS is widely used for developing web servers, web apps, APIs, etc. NodeJS uses the npm package manager, which has millions of ready-to-use libraries for almost every use case you could imagine.

> [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/)

Example code

After installing NodeJS:

- we use fs module to use files locally:

`import fs from "fs";`

`const text = fs.readFileSync("./data.txt", "utf-8")`

- to import a file:

`import { tester } from "./test1.js"`

- to run a file

`node test2.js`

### Deno

Deno was written in order to address various shortcomings of NodeJS, from security to usability concerns. Deno is “secure by default” — if Deno code needs to access the filesystem or make a network request, you’ll need to explicitly provide permission. In addition, Deno is distributed as an all-in-one executable that provides first class TypeScript support, linting/formatting with deno {lint,fmt}, bundling with deno bundle, test running with deno test, and more. Deno can run Typescript out of the box now supports a lot of npm packges, but does so without a package.json.

> [Deno 1.28: Featuring 1.3 Million New Modules](https://deno.com/blog/v1.28)

Example code:

After installing Deno, we need to press Shift + Command + P (on macOS) and select:
`Deno: Initialize Workspace Configuration`

- we use Deno library to use files locally:

`const text = await Deno.readTextFile("data.txt")`

- to import files we use:

`import { testers } from "./test1.ts"`

- to run a file:

`deno run test2.ts`

### Bun

The main offering of Bun is its speed — it claims to start 4 times faster than NodeJS and run JavaScript two to three times faster than NodeJS/Deno in various circumstances.

> [Bun](https://bun.sh/)

Example code

After installing Deno:

- we use fs module (same as Node) to use files locally:

`import fs from "fs"`

`const text = fs.readFileSync("./data.txt", "utf-8")`

- to run a file:

`bun run http.js`
