# MOB Programming Session

Date: 02-12-2022

Topic: Playwright

## Related Documentation

> [Grapqhl-request library](https://github.com/prisma-labs/graphql-request)

> [TypeScript Types](https://type-level-typescript.com/types-are-just-data)

## Summary

Analysis of test approach for writing a test case in the `mach-post-rollout-tests` repo. After developer changes, the tests uses the PAGE query in order to get product that exists and is in stock in the search field (data coming from Algolia) and product that exists and is in stock in Commerce Tools.

### Analysis of test setup

The `getFirstAvailableProductFromSearch` function searches for product card items on the site. The `href` attribute for a single product card is then stored in the `relativeReference` constant. This function returns promise of type Product.

Inside the same function, the value of the `relativeReference` constant is then passed into the `getPage` function which takes two parameters: token and the `relativeReference` value. `getPage` uses the `graphql-request` library to send a call with three parameters(endpoint, query, variables) and returns promise of type Page. The graphql query used in this call is `PAGE`.

The type Page consists of a field product which is of type array of Products. The first product of that array is the one that is then returned from the `getFirstAvailableProductFromSearch` function.

The returned product is then used for the next steps in the test.

### Types

In TypeScript the `type` keyword defines an alias to a type. We can also use the type keyword to define user defined types such as `Page` and `Product` types used in the test.
