# MOB Programming Session

Date: 16-12-2022

Topic: JavaScript Bundler - WebPack

## Related Documentation

> [The Complete JavaScript Module Bundlers Guide](https://snipcart.com/blog/javascript-module-bundler)

## Summary

A bundler is a development tool that combines many JavaScript code files into a single one that is production-ready loadable in the browser. Overall, a bundler's operation is divided into two stages: dependency graph generation and eventual bundling.

### Webpack

> [What is Webpack](https://blog.bitsrc.io/why-learning-webpack-is-important-as-front-end-developer-247bc0ca40bd)

> [Webpack: A TaskRunner and Bundler Story](https://youtu.be/6gBS9QBpJ34)

Webpack is a static module bundler for modern JavaScript applications. It builds a dependency graph that is responsible for bundling all your javascript modules into one regardless where they are located when one javascript file depends on each other.

In brief, Webpack goes through your package and creates what it calls a dependency graph which consists of various modules which your webapp would require to function as expected. Then, depending on this graph, it creates a new package which consists of the very bare minimum number of files required, often just a single bundle.js file which can be plugged in to the html file easily and used for the application.

By default, Cypress comes packaged with the webpack preprocessor already installed.

> [Cypress Preprocessors API](https://docs.cypress.io/api/plugins/preprocessors-api#Examples)

Like all modern JavaScript bundlers, Webpack begins the bundling process by assembling a dependency graph.

- Entry: specifies where Webpack should initiate its dependency graph. You can have one or more entry points depending on your app’s architecture. Webpack iterates through the module(s) listed in the webpack.config.js config file identifying the entry point’s direct and indirect dependencies.

`module.exports = { entry: './app/index.js', };`

- Output: specifies the desired destination for the final output after Webpack completes the packing process. The Output property contains two sub-values: the file path, usually the /dist folder, and the desired filename.

`const path = require('path'); module.exports = { entry: './app/index.js'`
