# MOB Programming Session

Date: 27-01-2023

Topic: Unit test with Jest

# Related Documentation

> [Jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started)

## Summary

A unit test is a way of testing a unit - the smallest piece of code that can be logically isolated in a system. In most programming languages, that is a function, a subroutine, a method or property. The isolated part of the definition is important.

Jest is an open source JavaScript unit testing framework. Jest is built on top of Jasmine. Unit testing of JavaScript code without Jest framework needs Test runner such as Mocha or Jasmine, assertion library such as Chai, mocks, stubs, mocking library such as Sinon. But Jest is having in built all features available.

Available code as part of the mob-programming session can be found inside folder `unittest/calculator.js` in this project.

## Installation and use

`yarn add --dev jest` - install Jest

`yarn add @types/jest` - add TypeScript definitions for Jest

`yarn run test` - run the tests

We created several methods found in the `calculator.js` file for which we wrote unit tests found in the `calculator.spec.js` file. We covered 100% of the code with unit tests written in this format:

```
test('should divide 10/5', () => {
expect(calculator.divide(10, 5)).toBe(2)
})
```

## Jest coverage

We added this code to the `package.json` to be able to see coverage achievement in different in different formats, one of them being an html format reporter. A `coverage` folder is created which lists the reports. The `index.html` file can be opened in the browser which shows the coverage percentage achievement.

In the `package.json` file we added:

```
"jest": {
    "collectCoverage": true,
    "coverageReporters": [
      "json",
      "html"
    ]
  }
```

In the `scripts` object inside `package.json` we added:

`"coverage": "jest --coverage"`

Executing this script with `yarn run coverage` will create the `index.html` file which will show the coverage percentage
