# MOB Programming Session

Date: 17-02-2023

Topic: Test driven development

# Related Documentation

> [What is Test Driven Development](https://www.browserstack.com/guide/what-is-test-driven-development)

## Summary

Test Driven Development (TDD) is software development approach in which test cases are developed to specify and validate what the code will do. Test cases for each functionality are created and tested first and if the test fails then the code is rewritten in order to pass the test and making code simple and bug-free.

We were given several requirements and rules:

- product A = 1.5$
- product B = 2$
- if a calculation includes 5 of more products, then the total sum should include a 10% discount

We started this MOB session with a thinking process of writing as many test cases including edge cases as well. The code for this MOB session can be found inside `price.spec.js` file.

The tests that we run afterwards failed because the code was not developed yet. We started writing the code which included a function `calculateTotalPrice` to calculate the sum of all products that are added and return the total sum.

We found that by executing the tests after writing the code, the test `5 products which includes A and B` failed. Looking back at the code, a mistake was made with the following part of the code:

```
  if (products.length > 5) {
    return totalPrice * 0.9
  }
```

Correct way would be to put `products.length >= 5` inside the if.

This example illustrated the benefit of using TDD - by writing tests first, and then developing the code.
