# MOB Programming Session

Date: 21-04-2023

Topic: GitHub workflows

# Related Documentation

> [GitHub workflows](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/about-workflows)

> [GitHub workflow syntax](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions)

> [GitHub checkout actions](https://github.com/actions/checkout/blob/main/.github/workflows/test.yml)


## Summary

We set up a CI/CD pipeline utilizing the GitHub actions syntax `.github\workflows\ci-cd.yml` in this project.

Within the file, there is a specification of the events that trigger the workflow defines a task that executes on an Ubuntu platform and establishes the task procedures. The procedures include fetching the code from the repository, installing dependencies and running unit tests with coverage.

```
name: ci-cd 
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main
  pull_request:
    types: [opened, synchronize]

jobs:
  mob-pipeline:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    defaults:
      run:
        working-directory: unittest

    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - name: install dependencies
        run: yarn

      - name: run unit test coverage
        run: yarn run coverage
```
- `name` field  defines a name for the workflow.

- `on` field specifies the events that trigger the workflow to run. here it is set up to trigger on pushes to the main branch and pull requests.

- `jobs` field defines job for the pipeline, named mob-pipeline.

- `runs-on` field specifies that the job will run on an Ubuntu environment. 

- `defaults` field is used to specify default values for all steps within the job.

- `steps` field defines the individual steps for the job.

- `actions/checkout@v`3 step to check out the repository's code.

- `install dependencies` step runs the `yarn` command to install dependencies required for the code.

- `run unit test coverage` step runs the `yarn run coverage` command to run unit tests with coverage reports.
